[DOCS] Updating MO documentation (#18757)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/Documentation/model_introduction.md

> Every deep learning workflow begins with obtaining a model. You can choose to prepare a custom one, use a ready-made solution and adjust it to your needs, or even download and run a pre-trained network from an online database, such as `TensorFlow Hub <https://tfhub.dev/>`__, `Hugging Face <https://huggingface.co/>`__, `Torchvision models <https://pytorch.org/hub/>`__.

Reviewer: Please check the text of this document and remove "direct/indirect read" terms.

Author: I have rephrased the following: https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/pull/18757/commits/d0cbe22e45aa9267665cfc2c4b797f956c4abfba

> Import a model directly using ``read_model()``

Reviewer: Please avoid using "directly"/"indirectly" terms.

```suggestion
Import a model using ``read_model()``
```

#################################################

> Model files (not Python objects) from :doc:`ONNX, PaddlePaddle, TensorFlow and TensorFlow Lite <Supported_Model_Formats>`  (check :doc:`TensorFlow Frontend Capabilities and Limitations <openvino_docs_MO_DG_TensorFlow_Frontend>`) do not require a separate step for model conversion, that is ``mo.convert_model``. OpenVINO provides C++ and Python APIs for importing the models to OpenVINO Runtime directly by just calling the ``read_model`` method, therefore reducing application start time.

Author: ```suggestion
Model files (not Python objects) from :doc:`ONNX, PaddlePaddle, TensorFlow and TensorFlow Lite <Supported_Model_Formats>`  (check :doc:`TensorFlow Frontend Capabilities and Limitations <openvino_docs_MO_DG_TensorFlow_Frontend>`) do not require a separate step for model conversion, that is ``mo.convert_model``.
```

> Model files (not Python objects) from :doc:`ONNX, PaddlePaddle, TensorFlow and TensorFlow Lite <Supported_Model_Formats>`  (check :doc:`TensorFlow Frontend Capabilities and Limitations <openvino_docs_MO_DG_TensorFlow_Frontend>`) do not require a separate step for model conversion, that is ``mo.convert_model``. OpenVINO provides C++ and Python APIs for importing the models to OpenVINO Runtime directly by just calling the ``read_model`` method, therefore reducing application start time.

Reviewer: This line looks outdated. Both convert_model() and read_model() provide direct read of model. Please remove the line.

> The ``read_model()`` method reads a model from a file and produces ``ov.Model``. If the file is in one of the supported original framework file :doc:`formats <Supported_Model_Formats>`, it is converted automatically to OpenVINO Intermediate Representation. If the file is already in the :doc:`OpenVINO IR format <openvino_ir>`, it is read "as-is", without any conversion involved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``read_model()`` method reads a model from a file and produces `openvino.runtime.Model <api/ie_python_api/_autosummary/openvino.runtime.Model.html>`. If the file is in one of the supported original framework file :doc:`formats <Supported_Model_Formats>`, it runs internal conversion to a OpenVino model format. If the file is already in the :doc:`OpenVINO IR format <openvino_ir>`, it is read "as-is", without any conversion involved.
```

Author: I find the following sentence less ambiguous:

```suggestion
The ``read_model()`` method reads a model from a file and produces `openvino.runtime.Model <api/ie_python_api/_autosummary/openvino.runtime.Model.html>`__. If the file is in one of the supported original framework file :doc:`formats <Supported_Model_Formats>`, the method runs internal conversion to an OpenVino model format. If the file is already in the :doc:`OpenVINO IR format <openvino_ir>`, it is read "as-is", without any conversion involved.
```

> The ``read_model()`` method reads a model from a file and produces `openvino.runtime.Model <api/ie_python_api/_autosummary/openvino.runtime.Model.html>`__. If the file is in one of the supported original framework file :doc:`formats <Supported_Model_Formats>`, the method runs internal conversion to an OpenVino model format. If the file is already in the :doc:`OpenVINO IR format <openvino_ir>`, it is read "as-is", without any conversion involved.

Author: ```suggestion
The ``read_model()`` method reads a model from a file and produces `openvino.runtime.Model <api/ie_python_api/_autosummary/openvino.runtime.Model.html>`__. If the file is in one of the supported original framework file :doc:`formats <Supported_Model_Formats>`, the method runs internal conversion to an OpenVINO model format. If the file is already in the :doc:`OpenVINO IR format <openvino_ir>`, it is read "as-is", without any conversion involved.
```

> You can still choose to convert a model from original framework to `openvino.runtime.Model <api/ie_python_api/_autosummary/openvino.runtime.Model.html>`__ (`ov.Model <api/ie_python_api/_autosummary/openvino.runtime.Model.html>`__ ), with a :doc:`tool <openvino_docs_MO_DG_Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide>` dedicated to this task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also convert a model from original framework to `openvino.runtime.Model <api/ie_python_api/_autosummary/openvino.runtime.Model.html>` using `convert_model()` method. More details about `convert_model()` are provided in :doc:`model conversion guide <openvino_docs_MO_DG_Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide>` .
```

``ov.Model`` can be serialized to IR using the ``ov.serialize()`` method. The serialized IR can be further optimized using :doc:`Neural Network Compression Framework (NNCF) <ptq_introduction>` that applies post-training quantization methods.

.. note::

>    Model conversion is still necessary in more complex cases, such as, new custom inputs/outputs in model pruning, adding pre-processing, or using Python conversion extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   `convert_model()` also allows to perform input/output cut, add pre-processing or add custom Python conversion extensions.
```

In addition to model files, ``mo.convert_model()`` can take OpenVINO extension objects constructed directly in Python for easier conversion of operations that are not supported in OpenVINO. The ``mo.convert_model()`` method also has a set of parameters to :doc:`cut the model <openvino_docs_MO_DG_prepare_model_convert_model_Cutting_Model>`, :doc:`set input shapes or layout <openvino_docs_MO_DG_prepare_model_convert_model_Converting_Model>`, :doc:`add preprocessing <openvino_docs_MO_DG_Additional_Optimization_Use_Cases>`, etc.

The figure below illustrates the typical workflow for deploying a trained deep learning model, where IR is a pair of files describing the model:

* ``.xml`` - Describes the network topology.
* ``.bin`` - Contains the weights and biases binary data.

.. image:: _static/images/model_conversion_diagram.svg
   :alt: model conversion diagram

Convert a model using ``mo`` command-line tool
#################################################

> Another option to convert a model is to use ``mo`` command-line tool. ``mo`` is a cross-platform tool that facilitates the transition between training and deployment environments, performs static model analysis, and adjusts deep learning models for optimal execution on end-point target devices in the same measure, as the ``mo.convert_model`` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another option to convert a model is to use ``mo`` command-line tool. ``mo`` is a cross-platform tool that facilitates the transition between training and deployment environments, performs static model analysis, and adjusts deep learning models for optimal execution on end-point target devices in the same measure, as the ``mo.convert_model()`` method.
```

Import a model using ``read_model()``
#################################################

Model files (not Python objects) from :doc:`ONNX, PaddlePaddle, TensorFlow and TensorFlow Lite <Supported_Model_Formats>`  (check :doc:`TensorFlow Frontend Capabilities and Limitations <openvino_docs_MO_DG_TensorFlow_Frontend>`) do not require a separate step for model conversion, that is ``mo.convert_model``.

The ``read_model()`` method reads a model from a file and produces `openvino.runtime.Model <api/ie_python_api/_autosummary/openvino.runtime.Model.html>`__. If the file is in one of the supported original framework file :doc:`formats <Supported_Model_Formats>`, the method runs internal conversion to an OpenVINO model format. If the file is already in the :doc:`OpenVINO IR format <openvino_ir>`, it is read "as-is", without any conversion involved.

You can also convert a model from original framework to `openvino.runtime.Model <api/ie_python_api/_autosummary/openvino.runtime.Model.html>`__ using ``convert_model()`` method. More details about ``convert_model()`` are provided in :doc:`model conversion guide <openvino_docs_MO_DG_Deep_Learning_Model_Optimizer_DevGuide>` .

> ``ov.Model`` can be serialized to IR using the ``ov.serialize()`` method. The serialized IR can be further optimized using :doc:`Neural Network Compression Framework (NNCF) <ptq_introduction>` that applies post-training quantization methods.

Reviewer 2: From this point, we should always recommend `save_model` method instead of `serialize`.

@slyalin, please comment.

Reviewer 3: Correct. That was the intention of `save_model` -- to be a better alternative to `serialize`. Don't recommend to use `serialize` for 2023.1, recommend `save_model` instead. Not applicable for 2023.0.

Reviewer 2: @sgolebiewski-intel, still not fixed.

Author: I have changed it to save_model method, in the following commits:
https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/pull/18757/commits/ff1997721da054c2e0bfb4951bf4eb2a162a9a43
https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/pull/18757/commits/93e39f6a8b70fe7cd1c7901d18029524011ff8d9
